CLIENT-SERVER-MODEL :- The client-server model is a distributed application structure that partitions task or workload between the provider of a 
                       resource called server. and service requesters called client. In the client-server model when the client sends a request
                       for data to the server through the internet the server accepts the requested process and deliver the data packets requested
                       back to the client . clients do not share any of their resources.

CLIENT :- When we talk the word client. it mean to talk of a person or an organization using a particular service. Similarly in the digital world
          a client is a computer (HOST) . capable of receving information or using a particular srevice from the service providers(server).


SERVER :- Similarly when we talk the word server. It means a person or medium that serves something . Similarly int the digital world a server 
          computer which provides information (data) or access to the particular service.                                 

 So, its basically the client requesting something and the server serving the data.

WORKING :- 

1). Users enters the URL (Uniform resource locator) of the website or file . The Browser then requests the DNS(Domain Name System) server.
2). Dns server will lookup for the address of web server
DNS :- dns server is a registry of domain name mapped with their IP address.
3). DNS server responds with the IP address of the web server.
4). Browser sends over an Http requests to the web server.

5). server sends over the necessary files of the website.



Q2. What is a stateless server ?
Ans. As the name suggests, the stateless server has no state with regard to the users information . It means when the user access any web resource,
     the server does not keep a track of the user identity or actions performed on the page . So every time , the user has to prove the identity to gain access.
     Basically The user does not need credentials everytime during the valid session.

     How does stateless server works ?
     users visits a webpage and the client-side interface on detecting a user responds with a credential window. The user gives a username and a password and submits it for for authentication . The server verifies the credentials from database and give access to the user . The server
     gives a unique token to verify the identity . The user on next request can use the token to gain entry into the resource. This eliminates the need for the server to store information.