                                    NODE JS


       Node.js is a javascript runtime enviroment for executing javascript code outside a browser. Node js is not a framework and it's not a programming language.

       Node js is a virtual machine that uses javascript as its scripting language and runs chrome v8 engine .   
     



                                 AUTHENTICATION

        iT IS JUST A WAY OF IDENTIFYING WHO SOMEONE IS ? =>IDENTIFICAION
    EX:- WITHOUT AUTHENTICATION I CAN'T BUY A PRODUCT ON AMAZON.

     MOST COMMON AUTHENTICATION :- * SIGNUP/REGISTER/CREATE ACCOUNT
                                   * LOGIN
       If email and password is correct only then LOGIN
       we have to match it with the data that in the database.

       authentication is the process of verifying the identity of a user or information .
        User authentication is the process of verifying the identity of a user when that user login in to a system.
                                                             

                                How JS engine works ?    

                                
          Whenever we create anything in javascript , an exection global exection context is created.

          ### The execution context is created with two phases :-
          1.Memory Creation Phase :- In this phase javascript assigns allocates a memory to a variable and functions as a key value pair.

          before even a single line of code run.
          So in case of variable it allocates a special  placeholder called undefined.
          And in case of function it allocates a whole code.
          But in case of arrow function and function expressions it allocates
          undefined only . because it act as a variable only.

          2.Code Execution Phase :- In this phase javaslcript runs code line by line.

  Lets look at the example below 
  var n = 2;
  function cube(num){
    var ans = num*num*num;
    return ans;
  }
  var cube_of_two = cube(2)
  console.log(cube_of_two);

 

                                 WHAT IS JWT ?

     JWT STANDS FOR JSON WEB TOKEN  
    A json web token is json object which is used to securely transfer informaton over the web . It can be used for an authentication system and can also be used for information exchange.

   jwt consists of three main parts seperated by Dots(.)

  which are :- headers,payload and signature.

  1). Headers :- The header typically consists of two parts the type of the token . which is jwt and signing algorithm being used.

       {
         "alg" : "HS256",
         "type" : "jwt",
       }

  2). Payload :-  The payload is the part of the JWT where all the user data actually added . 


  3). To create the signature part we need to take the encoded header the encoded payload and a secret key .
  




                               WHAT IS MIIDLEWARE ?



            MIDDLEWARE IS THE FUNCTION WHICH HAVE ACCESS TO THE REQUEST OBJECT , RESPONSE OBJECT AND THE NEXT FUNCTION IN REQUEST RESPONSE CYCLE 
            For Example :- we are sending some data from client  and  we need to check that that data which is required is valid or not so we will make one validation middleware which will check for us and if data is missing it send the RESPONSE that please provide all the required data.

             function validation(req,res,next){
              let{name,age,email} = req.body;
              if(name && age && email){
                next();
              }else{
                res.status(400).send({
                  message : "please send all the required data"
                })
              }
             }                                            


                               WHAT IS DATABASE ?

       The database is nothing but a place where we store the data . It is mostly a dedicated place that handles all types of crud operations on the data.
       There are multiple types of databases every one of them only differs "How " they store data . ultimate goal for every databases is same store the data and get data as effectively as possible.


       There are two types of databases

       (1). Relational Database :-  These type of database are the most common ones so far . They are one of the oldest database System as well . A Relational database stores the data in the row and column format.
  
  

       id     name    age
       1      john     33
       2      hack     50

       here id name age is the column and every row represents the data stored in the database . we call these types of databases Relational . because you can represent the data in terms of relations to the other data.'
                                     OR
       Each table has a special column that contains only distinct and unique values that are called primary key.    
       The primary key is used to define the relationship between the tables and if the 1st table(student) primary key ID is used in the 2nd table(College Student), then that column is called foreign key(Student ID) . So, ID is the primary key for student table.                          

       (2) Non-Relational :-  These are just opposite of SQL database which is why its common to call them "no-sql".

       In Nosql databases the data stored in DB has no relation with other data.In simple word you can store whatever you want without worrying about any structured.


                                                              WHAT IS DNS AND WHERE IT IS USED ?

               First of all whenever we want to open any website then first we open web browser after that we will type URL of that website .then url is now sent to the Domain name server . The DNS first check records of this URL in their database . the DNS
               will return IP address to web browser and now web browser is able to sent request to actual server.


               So , dns is a registry of domain name mapped with their ip addresses . After converting to their IP address.now our request will go to the actual server
               and server understand the request then it will respond.

             

               