CLIENT-SERVER-MODEL :- The client-server model is a distributed application structure that partitions task or workload between the provider of a 
                       resource called server. and service requesters called client. In the client-server model when the client sends a request
                       for data to the server through the internet the server accepts the requested process and deliver the data packets requested
                       back to the client . clients do not share any of their resources.

CLIENT :- When we talk the word client. it mean to talk of a person or an organization using a particular service. Similarly in the digital world
          a client is a computer (HOST) . capable of receving information or using a particular srevice from the service providers(server).


SERVER :- Similarly when we talk the word server. It means a person or medium that serves something . Similarly int the digital world a server 
          computer which provides information (data) or access to the particular service.                                 

 So, its basically the client requesting something and the server serving the data.

WORKING :- 

1). Users enters the URL (Uniform resource locator) of the website or file . The Browser then requests the DNS(Domain Name System) server.
2). Dns server will lookup for the address of web server
DNS :- dns server is a registry of domain name mapped with their IP address.
3). DNS server responds with the IP address of the web server.
4). Browser sends over an Http requests to the web server.

5). server sends over the necessary files of the website.



Q2. What is a stateless server ?
Ans. As the name suggests, the stateless server has no state with regard to the users information . It means when the user access any web resource,
     the server does not keep a track of the user identity or actions performed on the page . So every time , the user has to prove the identity to gain access.
     Basically The user does not need credentials everytime during the valid session.

     How does stateless server works ?
     users visits a webpage and the client-side interface on detecting a user responds with a credential window. The user gives a username and a password and submits it for for authentication . The server verifies the credentials from database and give access to the user . The server
     gives a unique token to verify the identity . The user on next request can use the token to gain entry into the resource. This eliminates the need for the server to store information.




                                                          THROUGHPUT VS LATENCY

        If throughput were a drinking straw in a glass of orange juice . latency is how much time it takes for the juice to get from the cup to 
        your mouth through that straw. It's basically a metric of delay. how long do you have to wait before enjoying the juice.

        In others words , throughput is the number of data packets being successfully sent per second and latency is the actual time those packets
        are taking to get there . So, the terms are related . they both relate data transfer and speed. you want to maximize the throughput but
        minimize latency.



                                                                       TOKEN 

            A token can be defined as a digitally encoded signature used to authenticate and authorize a user to access specific resource on
            a network.

            A token based authentication allows users to verify their unique identity and in return they receive a unique token 
            token that provides access to certain resources for a particular time frame.

            Apart from this users can easily access the website or network for which the token is issued and need not enter the credentials again and
            again until token expires.                                        



                                                              ROLE BASED AUTHENTICATION


               Only the administrator should have complete access to the network while the othrer employees like junior engineers need not full access to the network device. A junior level engineer
               generally requires only to crosscheck the configuration of the device , not to add or delete any configuration so why should give full access to that employee ?


               The concept of Role based access control is to create a set of permissions and assign these permissions to a user or group .
               With the help of these permissions , only limited access to users can be provided therefore level of security is increased.
